
This directory is the distribution of version 4.1 of the link grammar
parsing system for UNIX.  This version was created in August, 2000.
Please see our web page http://www.link.cs.cmu.edu/link for more
information, including documentation.

Changes over version 4.0:

   1. The program api-example.c has been updated.
   2. An example from the documentation is included: constituent-example.c
   3. The gnu header file stdarg.h is not included.


CONTENTS of this directory:

   src/*.c            The program.  (Written in ANSI-C)
   include/*.h

   obj/*.o            Object files

   data/4.0.dict      The file containing the dictionary definitions.

   data/4.0.knowledge The post-processing knowledge file.

   data/4.0.constituents    The constituent knowledge file.

   data/4.0.affix     The affix file.

   data/tiny.dict     A small sample dictionary.

   data/words/*       A directory full of word lists.

   data/4.0.batch     This is a batch file of sentences (both grammatical
                      and ungrammatical ones) that are handled correctly
                      by this release of the system.  Feed this into the
                      parser with "./parse 4.0.dict < 4.0.batch"

   Makefile           The makefile for creating the program "parse".

CREATING the system:

   To compile the demonstration program included here, simply go to the
   directory containing these files and type:

        make

   This creates a binary file called "parse".  If there are errors, you
   may need to customize the Makefile for your own systems.  Read the
   comments in the Makefile.  This program has been compiled under
   DEC, HP, SUN, LINUX, and BSDI.

RUNNING the program:

   To run the program issue the unix command:

       ./parse

   This starts the program.  Help is available there with "!help".  A
   number of user-settable variables control what happens.  "!var" shows
   these variables and their current values.

   We've used a special batch mode for testing the system on a large
   number of sentences.  The following command runs the parser on
   3.0.batch

       ./parse 4.0.dict < 4.0.batch

   The line "!batch" near the top of 4.0.batch turns on batch mode.  In
   this mode sentences labeled with an initial "*" should be rejected
   and those not starting with a "*" should be accepted.  Any deviation
   from this behavior is reported as an error.

USING the parser in your own applications:

   There is a API (application program interface) to the parser.  This
   makes it easy to incorporate it into your own applications.  This is
   documented on our web site.

COMMERCIAL use:

   We feel that our system (or a derivative of it) could be useful in a
   number of commercial applications.  We would be pleased to discuss
   terms with those wanting to use our system in this way.  Without an
   explicit agreement with the authors (listed below) such use is
   forbidden.  By "commercial use" we mean selling a product or service.
   Of course everybody is free to take the system for purposes of
   experiment and evaluation.  Of course all academic products or papers
   must reference our work.

ADDRESSES

   If you have any questions, or find any bugs, please feel free to send
   a note to:

     John Lafferty                     lafferty@cs.cmu.edu
     Computer Science Department       412-268-6791
     Carnegie Mellon University        www.cs.cmu.edu/~lafferty
     Pittsburgh, PA 15213

     Daniel Sleator                    sleator@cs.cmu.edu
     Computer Science Department       412-268-7563
     Carnegie Mellon University        www.cs.cmu.edu/~sleator
     Pittsburgh, PA 15213

     Davy Temperley                    dtemp@theory.esm.rochester.edu
     Eastman School of Music           716-274-1557
     26 Gibbs St.                      www.link.cs.cmu.edu/temperley
     Rochester, NY 14604

